# KDE

The following howtos relate to KDE. Since there are two KDE versions, some
of these apply to only one version, some to
both. In most cases, it's implied that the appliance is running on testdrive, to do the
modifications and transfer the modified files to the overlay section. Only
few scenarios need deeper knowledge. Sometimes modifications affect only
one user. In the following examples this is the tux user. 
Adjust the user name accordingly.

* This will become a table of contents (this text will be scraped).
{:toc}

## How to launch a KDE application on login

* KDE will read the .xinitrc file in the user's home directory (/home/tux
  for the user tux) and launch applications there.
* If you want to launch a KDE application when logging in to KDE, you can
  customize this on the Configuration Tab, on the section Desktop. *
  There you can add applications that you want to start for any user you
  choose. This will result in SUSE Studio writing the .xinitrc files for
  each user you specified.
* If you want this behaviour for every user on the computer, add a
  customized .xinitrc file to /etc/skeleton/.xinitrc via the
  overlay section so it will be copied into every user's home directory.
* Beware that SUSE Studio will overwrite the .xinitrc for the users you specified.
  Doing both things can lead to unpredictable results. If you want to
  specify a .xinitrc file as default but change it for some users, upload
  the .xinitrc files for every user (to their respective home directories) via the
  overlay section instead of configuring it through the Configuration
  Tab


## How to create, include, and use a new profile for Konqueror

In some cases you may want to launch konqueror with a specific profile.
First, create an image to test with testdrive. After booting the image, do the following:

1. Launch Konqueror.
2. Select "Configure View Profiles ..." from the "Settings" menu. Add a
   new profile name (e.g. welcome). You may want to set "Save window
   size in profile". Click on "Save"
3. Load the new profile ("Settings" -» "Load View Profile" -»
   your_profile).
4. Change the window size, the visible menus, etc.
5. Save your profile ("Settings" -» "Save View Profile your_profile ...").
6. Include these files into your appliance (on the overlay section):

       1. /home/tux/.kde/share/apps/konqueror/profiles/your_profile
       2. /home/tux/.kde/share/config/konquerorrc

Launch Konqueror with "konqueror --profile your_profile" in your scripts.


## How to launch an application in fullscreen mode in KDE(3)

Use this together with the "How to launch a KDE application on
login " to achieve a KIOSK-like effect.

       kstart --fullscreen [--ontop] application application_parameters


##How to add applications to favorites

The easiest way is to use testdrive. Run your appliance there and then
right click on the application icon in the menu and select add to favorites.
Then copy the `~/.kde/share/config/kickerrc` file to the overlay
section.


## How to add desktop shortcuts

Add a `.desktop` file into the ~/Desktop folder.
If you want this file applied to all users, copy it to /etc/skeleton/Desktop.  

## How to start an appliance with no SUSEgreeter

Copy the file `~/.kde/share/config/SUSEgreeterrc` from a KDE that has no
SUSEgreeter (e.g., after having booted the appliance once).


## How to customize SUSEgreeter

If you want to customize SUSEgreeter, for example the text, the
icons, etc., edit the files in `/opt/kde3/share/apps/SUSEgreeter/` and
upload the ones you change into testdrive.


## How to start an empty KDE session at every login

* In testdrive, open a console and type:

       kcmshell kcmsmserver

* This will start the session manager. Then select whether you want KDE
  to remember your session or start from scratch every time.

Then copy the file
`/home/tux/.kde/share/config/ksmserverrc` to your overlay section.


## How to change the wallpaper

There are two ways:

* The Configure tab in the appliance editor offers the wallpaper
  selection. Upload a new file and select it to be uses as wallpaper for
  booting in a running KDE system.
* In testdrive, change the wallpaper (e.g., right-click on empty desktop
  and select "configure desktop..."). Then copy the
  `~/.kde/share/config/kdesktoprc` file to the overlay files.
