# Importing

Configurations generated by [KIWI](http://opensuse.github.com/kiwi/) or
[AutoYaST](http://doc.opensuse.org/projects/autoyast/) can be imported
into SUSE Studio as new appliance configurations, instead of the
configuration supplied by a base template.  These configurations may be
generated by exporting from another SUSE Studio appliance (see
[Exporting](exporting.html)), generating an AutoYaST configuration on an
existing appliance, or by any method of generating a KIWI manifest.

On your home page:
1. Click "Create new appliance...".
2. Select the "Import" option of your preferred OS.
3. Click "Upload configuration file..." and select the file, be it a tar
   archive of SUSE Studio's KIWI export, a KIWI manifest, or an AutoYaST
   configuration file.
4. SUSE Studio will analyze the content and let you know if you may
   create a new appliance from the upload. If so...
5. Name your appliance and click "Create Appliance".  It may take a few
   moments to generate the appliance from the upload.

When importing KIWI's or AutoYaST's profile, the following settings are
currently transfered ("X" denotes a supported setting):

Setting            | KIWI | AutoYaST |
-------------------|:----:|:--------:|
Name               |      | X        |
Architecture       | X    | (1)      |
Base System        | X    | (1)      |
Users              | X    | X        |
Repository         | X    | X        |
Package            | X    | X        |
Patterns           |      | X        |
Network Settings   | X    |          |
Boot Settings      | X    |          |
Build Scripts      | X    |          |
Logos              | X    |          |
Background         | X    |          |
Overlay Files      | X    | X        |

**(1)** The architecture and base system are selected by the user during
the import. This information is not contained in the AutoYaST profile as
the profiles are designed to be generic.

The AutoYaST profile is stripped of the imported parts. The rest of the
profile is applied on the first boot of the appliance. The stripped
profile is available for editing as raw XML in the appliance
configuration, on the *Configuration+Scripts* tab.
